DOCSP-27661: Upgrade Driver page (#106)
mongodb/docs-csharp: source/upgrade.txt

- Address any breaking changes between the current version of the driver
  your application is using and your planned upgrade version in the
  :ref:`Breaking Changes <csharp-breaking-changes>` section. To learn
  more about the MongoDB Server release compatibility changes, see the
  :ref:`<csharp-server-release-changes>` section.

.. tip::

   To minimize the amount of changes your application may require when
   upgrading driver versions in the future, use the
   :ref:`{+stable-api+} <csharp-stable-api>`.

.. _csharp-breaking-changes:

Breaking Changes
----------------

A breaking change is a modification in a convention or behavior in
a specific version of the driver that may prevent your application from
working properly if not addressed before upgrading.

The breaking changes in this section are categorized by the driver version that
introduced them. When upgrading driver versions, address all the breaking
changes between the current and upgrade versions. For example, if you
are upgrading the driver from v2.0 to v2.20, address all breaking changes from
the version after v2.0 including any listed under v2.20.

Version 2.19.0 Breaking Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - The ``ObjectSerializer`` has been changed to only allow deserialization of
>   types that are considered safe. What types are considered safe is

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think this is past perfect tense, but would be better to use either simple past tense or present tense.
```suggestion
- The ``ObjectSerializer`` only allows deserialization of types that are considered safe. 
   Previously, it allowed deserialization of all types. The safe types are
```

>   determined by a new configurable ``AllowedTypes`` function (of type

Reviewer: Suggestion:

The article "a"/"an" refers to something unspecified and "the" refers to a specific thing. In this case, I think AllowedTypes is a specific configurable function:
 
```suggestion
  determined by the configurable ``AllowedTypes`` function (of type
```

  ``Func<Type, bool>``). The default ``AllowedTypes`` function is

>   ``ObjectSerializer.DefaultAllowedTypes`` which returns true for a

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think it would be helpful to identify that "true" is a value as it could otherwise be misread as an adjective.

```suggestion
  ``ObjectSerializer.DefaultAllowedTypes`` which returns "true" for a
```

>   number of well-known framework types that we have deemed safe.

Reviewer: Suggestion:
I think it would be good to link to some documentation that identifies what a "well-known" framework type if it exists. Perhaps the API documentation for DefaultAllowedTypes contains this or perhaps gives the reader a starting point in which to conduct their own investigation.

Reviewer: Just checking whether you had seen this comment since I can't find any related changes.

Reviewer: Suggestion:
I think it could still be valuable to link to the v2.19.0 docs for ObjectSerializer.DefaultAllowedTypes, whether in the FAQ entry or here. If there's reason not to include it, would it be possible to mention that in this review comment thread?

  A typical example might be to allow all the default allowed types as

>   well as your own types. This could be accomplished as follows:

Reviewer: Suggestion:

Use "can" when expressing something that is almost certainly going to happen and "could" when there's only a slight chance:

```suggestion
  well as your own types. This can be accomplished as follows:
```

  .. code-block:: csharp

     var objectSerializer = new ObjectSerializer(

>         type => ObjectSerializer.DefaultAllowedTypes(type) || type.FullName.StartsWith("MyNamespace"));

Reviewer: Question:
Does this conditional specify something in addition to DefaultAllowedTypes (type.FullName.StartsWith...)? If so, I think it would make sense to either add what that statement does to the description of the code example or remove it.

Reviewer: Sure, if there is information that demonstrates this already, it would be good to link to it in place of adding a code snippet here.

     BsonSerializer.RegisterSerializer(objectSerializer);
    
  More information about the ``ObjectSerializer`` can be found in our
  :ref:`FAQ <csharp-faq-object-serializer>`.

- The default ``LinqProvider`` has been changed to LINQ3. The ``LinqProvider``

>   can be changed back to LINQ2 in the following way:

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think it can be helpful to provide some specificity in where it is set. You might consider also in-lining the connection uri into the FromConnectionString() method to shorten the boilerplate code.

```suggestion
  can be configured for LINQ2 in ``MongoClientSettings`` as shown in the following code example:
```

Reviewer: Just checking whether you had seen this comment since I can't find any related changes.

  
  .. code-block:: csharp
    

>      var connectionString = "<YourMongoDBConnectionString>";

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think it is easier for the user to make the right assumptions when the placeholder and variable names are consistent with the rest of the documentation when possible.

For example, see the one that represents the connection string/uri in the code example in this section:
https://docs-mongodbcom-staging.corp.mongodb.com/csharp/docsworker-xlarge/DOCSP-27661-Upgrade-Driver-page/fundamentals/connection/connect/#connect-to-atlas

Reviewer: Just checking whether you had seen this comment since I can't find any related changes.

     var clientSettings = MongoClientSettings
        .FromConnectionString(connectionString);
     clientSettings.LinqProvider = LinqProvider.V2;
     var client = new MongoClient(clientSettings);

.. _csharp-server-release-changes:

Server Release Compatibility Changes
------------------------------------

A server release compatibility change is a modification
to the MongoDB .NET/C# Driver that discontinues support for a set of
MongoDB Server versions.

The driver discontinues support for a MongoDB Server version after it

> reaches end-of-life(EOL).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reaches end-of-life (EOL).
```

To learn more about the MongoDB support for EOL products see the `Legacy
Support Policy <https://www.mongodb.com/support-policy/legacy>`__. 

To learn more about the compatibility between .NET/C# driver versions
and MongoDB Server versions, visit the

> :ref:`Compatibility page<csharp-compatibility-tables>`. 

Reviewer: Suggestion:

While this renders correctly, I think it's better to add a space between the text and directive name. Also, generally the link text should contain the title rather than "page", similar to the prior link to the compatibility tables.

```suggestion
:ref:`Compatibility <csharp-compatibility-tables>` page. 
```

.. _csharp-upgrade-driver:

=======================
Upgrade Driver Versions
=======================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this section, you can identify essential changes you must make to your
application when you upgrade your driver to a new version.

Before you upgrade, perform the following actions:

- Ensure the new version is compatible with the MongoDB Server versions
  your application connects to and the {+framework+} version your
  application runs on. See the :ref:`.NET/C# Driver Compatibility <csharp-compatibility-tables>`
  page for this information.
- Address any breaking changes between the current version of the driver
  your application is using and your planned upgrade version in the
  :ref:`Breaking Changes <csharp-breaking-changes>` section. To learn
  more about the MongoDB Server release compatibility changes, see the
  :ref:`<csharp-server-release-changes>` section.

.. tip::

>    To minimize the amount of changes your application may require when

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think it helps to use a quantifier that agrees with the noun. Since "changes" is a countable noun, use a quantifier such as "number" rather than one that doesn't necessarily describe a countable quantity "amount".

```suggestion
   To minimize the number of changes your application may require when
```

   upgrading driver versions in the future, use the
   :ref:`{+stable-api+} <csharp-stable-api>`.

.. _csharp-breaking-changes:

Breaking Changes
----------------

> A breaking change is a modification in a convention or behavior starting in

Reviewer: Suggestion:

Sorry I missed this before; I think the preposition "of" works better to describe how the modification applies to a convention. I think it is also helpful to use parallel structure, i.e. if you use "a" to identify the convention, use the parallel identifying article for behavior.

```suggestion
A breaking change is a modification of a convention or a behavior starting in
```

a specific version of the driver. This type of change may prevent your application from
working properly if not addressed before upgrading the driver.

The breaking changes in this section are categorized by the driver version that
introduced them. When upgrading driver versions, address all the breaking
changes between the current and upgrade versions. For example, if you
are upgrading the driver from v2.0 to v2.20, address all breaking changes from
the version after v2.0 including any listed under v2.20.

Version 2.19.0 Breaking Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- The ``ObjectSerializer`` only allows deserialization of
  types that are considered safe. Previously, it allowed deserialization
  of all types. What types are considered safe is

>   determined by the configurable ``AllowedTypes`` function (of type
>   ``Func<Type, bool>``). The default ``AllowedTypes`` function is

Reviewer: Suggestion:

While this might be a borderline case, I think the style guide suggests "[avoid parentheses in running text](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/punctuation/#parentheses)." I think the following suggestion is equally as effective and avoids using the parentheses:
 
```suggestion
  determined by the configurable ``AllowedTypes`` function, which
  is of type ``Func<Type, bool>``. 
  The default ``AllowedTypes`` function is
```

>   ``ObjectSerializer.DefaultAllowedTypes`` which returns "true" for a

Reviewer: Suggestion:

Rather than the default function, I think it is easier to understand as a default value. If it is a function, you can describe it as the return value or what that contains.

E.g.
"If not specified otherwise, the ``ObjectSerializer`` uses the types returned by ``ObjectSerializer.DefaultAllowedTypes``."

  number of well-known framework types that we have deemed safe.
  A typical example might be to allow all the default allowed types as
  well as your own types.

  More information about the ``ObjectSerializer`` can be found in our

>   :ref:`FAQ <csharp-faq-object-serializer>`.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think the style guide suggests [avoiding passive voice](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/writing/use-active-voice/) when possible.
The style guide also provides guidance on introducing links to clarify the info about them in 
[Make Link Text Clear](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/links-and-cross-references/#make-link-text-clear).

If you look through our docs, we usually use "To learn more, see..." or "For more information, see..." which are used in this PR a few times.

Author: Thank you, this is very useful!

     var client = new MongoClient(clientSettings);

Version 2.14.0 Breaking Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- This {+driver-long+} version removed support for {+framework+} v4.5.2 or earlier; the minimum
  {+framework+} supported is v4.7.2.

- This version of the {+driver-long+} does not support .NET Standard v1.5; the minimum .NET
  Standard supported is v2.0.

Version 2.13.0 Breaking Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- The ``slave0k`` connection string option was removed; the
  ``readPreference`` option is now used instead.

.. _csharp-server-release-changes:

Server Release Compatibility Changes
------------------------------------

A server release compatibility change is a modification
to the {+driver-long+} that discontinues support for a set of
MongoDB Server versions.

The driver discontinues support for a MongoDB Server version after it
reaches end-of-life (EOL).

To learn more about the MongoDB support for EOL products see the `Legacy
Support Policy <https://www.mongodb.com/support-policy/legacy>`__. 

To learn more about the compatibility between .NET/C# driver versions
and MongoDB Server versions, visit the

> :ref:`Compatibility<csharp-compatibility-tables>` page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`Compatibility <csharp-compatibility-tables>` page. 
```
